.\" Manpage for jami.
.TH JAMI 1 "2022-12-29" "Jami" "GNU"
.SH NAME
jami \- Qt-based user interface for Jami
.SH SYNOPSIS
jami [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
jami is a Qt-based client application (user interface) for Jami, an
official GNU package for universal communication that respects the
freedom and privacy of its users.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Display help on command line options and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-help\-all
Display help including Qt-specific command line options and exit.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Display version information and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-disable\-web\-security
Don't enforce the same-origin policy.  This is currently used by jami
by default to allow loading local resources in the chatview (for media
and link preview, and emoji picker).

This is a Qt WebEngine Chromium flag and is only applicable if jami
was built with Qt WebEngine.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-sandbox
Disable the security sandbox for Qt WebEngine's renderer and plugin
processes.

This is a Qt WebEngine Chromium flag and is only applicable if jami
was built with Qt WebEngine.
.TP
.B \-\-single\-process
Run Qt WebEngine's renderer and plugins in the same process as its
browser, useful for getting stack traces for renderer crashes.  This
is currently used by jami by default.

This is a Qt WebEngine Chromium flag and is only applicable if jami
was built with Qt WebEngine.
.TP
.B \-\-remote\-debugging\-port=<port_number>
Local port to run the Qt WebEngine developer tools interface on,
useful for inspecting and debugging web views.

To access the Qt WebEngine developer tools after launching jami with
this flag, open the address http://localhost:<port_number> in your web
browser.

This is a Qt WebEngine flag and is only applicable if jami was built
with Qt WebEngine.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-minimized
Start jami minimized.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Enable debug mode for more verbose console output.
.TP
.B \-f, \-\-file=<file>
Write debug output to <file>.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-term
Terminate all other currently running instances of jami.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Mute daemon logging, useful for debugging only the Qt-based client
application (user interface).

This is only applicable when debug mode is enabled.
.SH SEE ALSO
jamid(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Amin Bandali (bandali@gnu.org)
